# Word Ladder Solver

| NIM | Nama |
| ------ | ------ |
| 10023634 | Yudi Kurniawan |

## Table of Contents

- [General Info](#general-info)
- [Technologies Used](#technologies-used)
- [Features](#features)
- [Setup](#setup)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Project Status](#project-status)
- [Room for Improvement](#room-for-improvement)
- [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)
- [Contact](#contact)

## General Information

Provide general information about your project here.

- **Problem Solved:** Provides a solution to find a word ladder between two given words.
- **Purpose:** To implement various search algorithms to find the shortest path between words in a dictionary.
- **Undertaking Reason:** To understand and demonstrate different search algorithms in practice.

## Technologies Used

- Java - version 8
- Gson - version 2.8.6 (for JSON processing)

## Features

List the ready features here:

- Finds word ladder using Uniform Cost Search (UCS).
- Finds word ladder using Greedy Best First Search (GBFS).
- Finds word ladder using A* search algorithm.

## Setup

Project requirements/dependencies are listed in the `build.gradle` file. To install and set up the local environment, follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository.
2. Navigate to the project directory.
3. Compile the Java files using `javac`.
4. Run the program using `java`.

## Usage

To use the program, follow these steps:

1. Input the start word and end word when prompted.
2. Select the desired search algorithm.
3. View the word ladder generated by the selected algorithm.

# Cara Penggunaan

Berikut adalah langkah-langkah untuk menggunakan program Word Ladder Solver setelah mengunduh repositorinya:

# Clone Repository
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/word-ladder-solver.git

# Navigate to Project Directory
cd word-ladder-solver

# Compile Java Files
javac -cp gson.jar:. WordLadderSolverCLI.java
atau
javac WordLadderSolverCLI.java

# Run Program
java -cp gson.jar:. WordLadderSolverCLI
atau
java WordLadderSolverCLI


## Project Status

Project is complete.

## Room for Improvement

Areas that need improvement or could be improved:

- Implement additional search algorithms.
- Improve user interface for better user experience.

To do:

- Add feature to visualize the word ladder graphically.
- Implement multithreading for faster execution of search algorithms.

## Acknowledgements

This project was inspired by various resources and tutorials on graph traversal and search algorithms.

## Contact

Created by YudiKurniawan24 in github - feel free to contact me!
